adds intro to function material, first draft (#1)
Ada-Developers-Academy/core: intro-to-functions/invoking-functions.md

| Invoking a function | "Invoking a function" means "make the lines of code inside of a function definition happen now." We can invoke a function any number of times (even infinitely!) | Calling a function, executing a function, evaluating a function, running a function, using a function | "I invoked the function named `print`," "I need to invoke `print` before the `if` statement," "I need to call that function at the end."
| Argument | An argument is a piece of data delivered to a function when it's being invoked. | Parameter | "I passed in the argument `"orange"`", "The function takes in two arguments"
| Return value | A return value is the piece of data that a function delivers to the code that invoked the function. | Return | "That function returned a dictionary," "I need to use the return value of that function"

## Every Function Has a Responsibility

Functions do things, and have a responsibility to do things when they are _invoked_.

> It will be easiest for us to use functions in the future when we understand what the _responsibility_ of each function is when we use it. We should describe what each function is supposed to be doing, and understand what "goes into" a function, gets computed inside of a function, and "goes out" of a function before we use it.

Author: I love the suggestion--

Nitpicking: The wording "We need to fully understand" feels very absolute to me (are there cases where we don't need to full understand a function when we use it?)

Just want to ask: does that wording feel accurate still?

Could it be "We should fully understand"? I'm super into push-back on this, i'm just a big softie ;) and maybe it's more effective to say "We need to"?

> It will be easiest for us to use functions in the future when we understand what the _responsibility_ of each function is when we use it. We should describe what each function is supposed to be doing, and understand what "goes into" a function, gets computed inside of a function, and "goes out" of a function before we use it.

Reviewer: it does sound very absolute. And in most cases, developers don't always **fully** understand the tools, functions, etc. they're using. 

I am all about succinctness, so 'we need to' fits well for me. But 'We should fully understand' is good as well. I say flip a coin between the two lol.

> It will be easiest for us to use functions in the future when we understand what the _responsibility_ of each function is when we use it. We should describe what each function is supposed to be doing, and understand what "goes into" a function, gets computed inside of a function, and "goes out" of a function before we use it.

Author: ```suggestion
We should fully understand the *responsibility* of each function when we use it. Before using a function, we should be able to describe the following:

* the purpose of the function
* the data that *'goes into'* the function
* the computations inside of the function
* the data that *'goes out'* of the function
```

Python has defined a lot of functions for us to use, already. Let's look at some Python functions and their responsibilities.

| Name of function | Responsibility |
| --- | --- |
| `len` | Based on the one given value, will calculate the length of the given value. The given value is typically either a string or list.
| `print` | Based on one given value, will display the given value to the "standard output" (like the console, terminal, bash, etc) as best it can.
| `randint` | Based on two given values, generate a random integer in the range between the first given value and the second given value

> | `time.time` | Calculates the number of seconds passed since [epoch. For Unix system, January 1, 1970, 00:00:00 at UTC is epoch (the point where time begins).](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time)

Author: I'm into a suggestion for another one, my request is that it doesn't take any arguments!

Callout: Going forward, because technically `time` and `randint` are the names of the functions, and `time.time` and `random.randint` are how we must invoke them, we will notate it as such.

## Invoke Functions with `function_name()`

If we know a function's name, we know its responsibility, and we know we want to _invoke_ this function on a certain line of code, we use this syntax:

```python
function_name()
```

... where `function_name` is replaced with the name of the function. We attach `()` to the right side of the function name.

Let's look at those Python functions and the syntax for how to invoke them.

| Name of function | Syntax to Invoke (With Zero Arguments) |
| --- | --- |
| `len` | `len()`
| `print` | `print()`
| `randint` (inside the `random` module) | `random.randint()`
| `time` (inside the `time` module) | `time.time()`

### Try It

Run this code, and see what it outputs.

```python
import time
time.time
```

Now, run this code, and observe the difference.

```python
import time
time.time()
```

> `time.time()` (with `()`) invokes the function, and gives us the number of seconds since epoch, fulfilling its responsibility. Without `()`, we are simply just acknowledging that `time.time` is a defined function.

Author: Yeahhhhh. Um, tbh, I don't know if I have a strong preference. I'm mostly just into whatever seems less confusing to the students in the flow of this lesson. In the table above, there's a column for "Syntax to Invoke (with Zero Arguments)" so whatever we choose here should match the table above.

In order to not have more "callouts"/asides, I MIGHT prefer to keep this syntax as is. Open for thoughts.

> 

Author: I'll look into this 💀

> 

Author: RIP I was hoping that Learn would have a REPL RIP RIP RIP 💀 💀 💀 💀 

I'll think more on this now, but I like your suggestion about conforming these examples (and all repl-esque examples) into "Run this code in a REPL" instructions (rather than just "run this code")

> 

Reviewer: AHHHHH That's so frustrating about Learn!!

## Functions Take In Arguments

Functions can "take in" 0 arguments, 1 argument, 2 arguments, 3 arguments, or more!

The `()` that we attached to the right of a name is actually how to invoke the function with _zero arguments._

> To invoke a function with one or more arguments, we need to include the arguments **comma-separated** and **inside the `()`s.**

Author: Gonna go with Kaida's suggestion since it ends up being less characters :P

`print` | nothing | `print("Garry's Models")` | `"Garry's Models"` | `None`
`randint` | a random integer within the range of the two arguments | `random.randint(0, 777)` | `0` and `777` | 419
`time` | the number of seconds since epoch | `time.time()` | - | `1602720584.8029282`

Callout: `print`'s return value is always `None`! This is intentional. The people who defined `print` (aka Python) said that the responsibility of `print` is to return `None`.

How do we figure out what a return value is or should be? The logic for determining the return value is inside of the function itself, so to figure out what the return value for any function is, we would need to...

- look at how the function is defined, or
- read the function's documentation

### Calling Functions and Using Return Values is Our Job

When a function is invoked, the return value is used to pass back a value to the code that invoked the function.

Our logic will often rely on these return values of the functions we use.

**Setting Up a Pattern:** We will often...
1. _declare_ a variable

> 1. then _assign_ that variable to the return value of a function, by invoking that function on the right-hand side of the assignment operator `=`.

Author: This list doesn't feel fixed to me-- It feels flexible that it might grow, shrink, or get refined!

Because of that, and because the lesson doesn't reference these items by number, I'd love to keep it at a generic "1. 1. 1." markdown list syntax. Lmk if you have thoughts on that!

Read these lines of code:

```python
kelseas_details = ["Kelsea's Title", "Kelsea's Job Description"]
details_length = len(kelseas_details)
```

Our Python interpreter reads this line of code from left to right like so:

1. On line 1, the _value_ of the _variable_ named `kelseas_details` is _assigned_ to the value on the right: a _list_ with two elements: `"Kelsea's Title"` and `"Kelsea's Job Description"`
2. On line 2, the _value_ of the _variable_ named `details_length` is _assigned_ to the value on the right: `len(kelseas_details)`
    - What is the evaluated value of `len(kelseas_details)`? Well, we are _invoking_ the function `len`, passing in one argument: `kelseas_details`. The **return value** of `len(kelseas_details)` is `2`
    - Therefore, the variable `details_length` is _assigned_ to the value `2` (the return value of `len(kelseas_details)`)

We should and will use those return values as:

- values we assign to other variables
- values that we pass to other functions
- values that we use in other data structures
- ... or more!

## Order Matters: Invoke Functions After It's Defined

> We can only invoke and call functions after the function is defined.

Author: There's no difference, I was being redundant here. I have a habit of trying to repeat vocabulary 234724 times, especially words that are newer to junior devs.

The sentence makes sense with just "invoke" -- If you feel like readers don't need the redundancy of "invoke and call" to communicate the same thing, let's pick "invoke"!

### `NameError` on Undefined Functions

The function `time` is technically part of a module named `time`, and the function is undefined until we import the `time` module.

In this example, we _call_ the function `time.time()` after we load (and therefore define) `time.time` with the line `import time`.

```python
import time
current_time = time.time()
print(current_time)
```

In this example, we call the function `time.time()` **before** we do `import time`.

```python
current_time = time.time()
import time
print(current_time)
```

We should get the following error:

```
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "sandbox.py", line 1, in <module>
    current_time = time.time()
NameError: name 'time' is not defined
```

> This error is Python telling us "Hey! On line 1, when we see `current_time = time.time()`, we see the name of _something_ called `'time'`, but I don't know what that is. I don't know anything with the name of `time`."

Author: 😩

Read these lines of code:

```python
kelseas_details = ["Kelsea's Title", "Kelsea's Job Description"]
details_length = len(kelseas_details)
```

Our Python interpreter reads this line of code from left to right like so:

1. On line 1, the _variable_ named `kelseas_details` is _assigned_ the value on the right: a _list_ with two elements: `"Kelsea's Title"` and `"Kelsea's Job Description"`
2. On line 2, the _value_ of the _variable_ named `details_length` is _assigned_ to the value on the right: `len(kelseas_details)`
    - What is the evaluated value of `len(kelseas_details)`? Well, we are _invoking_ the function `len`, passing in one argument: `kelseas_details`. The **return value** of `len(kelseas_details)` is `2`
    - Therefore, the variable `details_length` is _assigned_ to the value `2` (the return value of `len(kelseas_details)`)

We should and will use those return values as:

- values we assign to other variables
- values that we pass to other functions
- values that we use in other data structures
- ... or more!

## Order Matters: Invoke Functions After It's Defined

> We can only invoke and call functions after the function is defined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can only invoke functions after the function is defined.
```

yay to invoking!
